Real World VoiceEQ blog (#3462)
huggingface/blog: real-world-voiceeq.md

Voice models can sound like different people over the course of a conversation, miss hesitation or uncertainty, and struggle with accents, noise, or emotional speech. Those shortcomings are easy to miss in benchmarks focused on latency and word error rate. People care whether a voice system can truly listen, respond appropriately, and remain natural and reliable in real conversations.

## A broader benchmark for voice AI

To measure those qualities, we built [Real World VoiceEQ](https://www.hume.ai/rw-voice-eq)—a benchmark designed to evaluate the human quality of voice interaction. It assesses whether voice systems can recognize, produce, and respond to the acoustic information transcripts leave out, from tone and emotion to speaker identity and background context.

Real World VoiceEQ evaluates more than **40 leading proprietary and open-source voice models** across **15+ key evaluation dimensions** and more than **60 metrics** spanning Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), Text-to-Speech (TTS), Speech-to-Speech (S2S), and Speech Understanding.

> ![The four components of Real World VoiceEQ — Text-to-Speech, Speech-to-Speech, Speech Understanding, and ASR Robustness — each with its evaluation dimensions.](/blog/assets/real-world-voiceeq/benchmark-overview.png)

Reviewer: update link to the one hosted on the HF hub

> ![The four components of Real World VoiceEQ — Text-to-Speech, Speech-to-Speech, Speech Understanding, and ASR Robustness — each with its evaluation dimensions.](/blog/assets/real-world-voiceeq/benchmark-overview.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The four components of Real World VoiceEQ — Text-to-Speech, Speech-to-Speech, Speech Understanding, and ASR Robustness — each with its evaluation dimensions.](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/real-world-voiceeq/benchmark-overview.png)
```

## Why Voice AI needs a new measurement layer

As voice becomes one of AI's defining interfaces, speed and technical accuracy alone will no longer determine which systems succeed. The models people ultimately choose will be those that can understand, express, and respond like humans—not just under ideal benchmark conditions, but across the complexity of real-world conversation.

For decades, speech AI has advanced by optimizing against quantitative metrics on standardized benchmarks; from WER for transcription accuracy to objective perceptual metrics like PESQ and DNSMOS for speech quality. We hope Real World VoiceEQ can extend this paradigm by providing a human-grounded metric for evaluating the components of synthetic voice interactions.

> **Read the [full technical report](https://cdn.sanity.io/files/xqnc2for/production/84e7925ad3694bcbd12cbf2d107bd9bf2da4f3d8.pdf) and explore the [public leaderboards](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HumeAI/rw-voice-eq)—or [get in touch](https://www.hume.ai/sales-form) to learn how Hume can evaluate your voice model or agent using Real World VoiceEQ, or design custom evaluations tailored to your specific use case.**

Reviewer: is your report on arvix? if you add to HF papers [here](https://huggingface.co/papers/submit), it will nicely render the paper on the side, like you see [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/open-asr-leaderboard)

---

> title: "Real World VoiceEQ"

Reviewer: maybe it's a placeholder, but the longer title as in the blog draft could be nicer!

thumbnail: /blog/assets/real-world-voiceeq/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: HumeAI

>   guest: true

Reviewer: we should set actual usernames and their org like [this](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/ffasr-leaderboard.md?plain=1#L5-L7)
